# Developing Visualisations

## Steps to Create a Visualisation
In order to create a new visualisation for _Stroom_ the following steps need to be taken.

### Run the create_vis.sh in stroom-vis-generator directory

This will create the new files for you

### Write the Visualisation JavaScript

See [Structure of a Visualisation Script](structureOfAVisualisationScript.md) for the basic skeleton of a visualisation script.

### Add the Visualisation to the TestVis Test Harness

In order to test the visualisation you will need to add the new visualisation script as an import in `war/index.html`. You will also need to add it to the `<select id="visType">` element so it is available for selection in the drop down.

If the visualisation has certain _settings_ values that need to be hard coded then this can be done in `war/vis/TestVis.js`.

The visualisation script will need a suitable test data set to run and this can be generated in _TestData.js_ using some common methods.

### Update the template Visualisation Settings JSON File

You will need to update setting JSON object for the _Script_.

See [Visualisation Settings Structure](visualisationsSettingsStructure.md) for details on the structure of the settings file.

### UUIDs, Dependencies and tags

UUIDs can be generated by running _uuidgen_ in Linux.

These will be generated for your new vis by create_vis.sh .

### `"dependencies" : ` Block inside MyVis.meta

Within this block the dependencies are listed with the UUID. E.g.
 
 {
    "type" : "Script",
    "uuid" : "49a5f46c-f627-49ed-afb9-0066b99e235a",
    "name" : "Common"
  }
